OSDOCS-1846, WRKLDS-241/242: Consolidated assembly for TLS profiles (#32826)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/tls-profiles-kubernetes-configuring.adoc

[NOTE]
====
The Kubernetes control plane does not support TLS `1.3`.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

. Edit the default `APIServer` CR to configure the TLS security profile:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit APIServer cluster
----

. Add the `spec.tlsSecurityProfile` field:
+
.Sample `APIServer` CR for a `Custom` profile
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: APIServer
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  tlsSecurityProfile:
    type: Custom <1>
    custom: <2>
      ciphers: <3>
      - ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
      - ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
      - ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
      - ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
      minTLSVersion: VersionTLS11
----
<1> Specify the TLS security profile type (`Old`, `Intermediate`, or `Custom`). The default is `Intermediate`.
<2> Specify:
* `old: {}`
* `intermediate: {}`
* `custom:`
<3> For the `custom` type, specify a list of TLS ciphers and minimum accepted TLS version.

. Save the file to apply the changes. 

.Verification

> Verify that the TLS security profile is set in the `APIServer` CR:

Reviewer: This should be an unnumbered bullet

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/tls-profiles.adoc

[id="tls-profiles-kubernetes-configuring_{context}"]
= Configuring the TLS security profile for the Kubernetes control plane

> To configure a TLS security profile for the Kubernetes control components (Kubernetes API server, the Kubernetes scheduler, and the Kubernetes controller manager), edit the `APIServer` custom resource (CR).  If a TLS profile is not configured, the default TLS profile is `Intermediate`. The Kubernetes control plane consists of the Kubernetes API server, the Kubernetes scheduler, and the Kubernetes controller manager.

Reviewer 2: "for the Kubernetes control *plane* components"

Reviewer 2: I believe this configuration is also reflected in the openshift control plane components, like the openshift- and oauth-apiservers and the oauth-server. Are these addressed elsewhere?

.Sample `APIServer` CR that configures the `Old` TLS security profile
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: APIServer
 ...
spec:
  tlsSecurityProfile:
    old: {}
    type: Old
 ...
----

> The TLS security profile defines the the minimum TLS version and the TLS ciphers required by the Kubernetes control plane components to communicate with each other.

Reviewer 2: double "the" in "the the minimum"

Reviewer 2: The TLS security profile actually defines the TLS ciphers and TLS versions to use when communicating *with* those components, not for usage between each other.

Author: Thank you!!

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: APIServer
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  tlsSecurityProfile:
    type: Custom <1>
    custom: <2>
      ciphers: <3>
      - ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
      - ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
      - ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
      - ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
      minTLSVersion: VersionTLS11
----
<1> Specify the TLS security profile type (`Old`, `Intermediate`, or `Custom`). The default is `Intermediate`.
<2> Specify:
* `old: {}`
* `intermediate: {}`
* `custom:`
<3> For the `custom` type, specify a list of TLS ciphers and minimum accepted TLS version.

. Save the file to apply the changes. 

.Verification

Verify that the TLS security profile is set in the `APIServer` CR:

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe apiserver cluster
----

.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Name:         cluster
Namespace:
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  include.release.openshift.io/ibm-cloud-managed: true
              include.release.openshift.io/self-managed-high-availability: true
              include.release.openshift.io/single-node-developer: true
              oauth-apiserver.openshift.io/secure-token-storage: true

>               release.openshift.io/create-only: true

Reviewer 2: I think we may want to exclude these annotations, they are not relevant to this documentation anyway

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * security/tls-profiles.adoc

[id="tls-profiles-kubernetes-configuring_{context}"]
= Configuring the TLS security profile for the Kubernetes control plane

> To configure a TLS security profile for the Kubernetes control plane, edit the `APIServer` custom resource (CR).  If a TLS profile is not configured, the default TLS profile is `Intermediate`. The Kubernetes control plane consists of the Kubernetes API server, the Kubernetes scheduler, and the Kubernetes controller manager.

Reviewer: The control plane technically consists of more components, so need to rework that last sentence a little. Maybe:

```suggestion
To configure a TLS security profile for the Kubernetes control plane components (Kubernetes API server, the Kubernetes scheduler, and the Kubernetes controller manager), edit the `APIServer` custom resource (CR). If a TLS profile is not configured, the default TLS profile is `Intermediate`. 
```

.Sample `APIServer` CR that configures the `Old` TLS security profile
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: APIServer
 ...
spec:
  tlsSecurityProfile:
    old: {}
    type: Old
 ...
----

The TLS security profile defines the the minimum TLS version and the TLS ciphers required by the Kubernetes control plane components to communicate with each other.

You can see the ciphers and the minimum TLS version of the configured TLS security profile  in the `APIServer` custom resource (CR) under `Spec.Tls Security Profile` and `Status.Tls Profile`. 

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The Kubernetes control plane does not support TLS `1.3` and because the `Modern` profile requires TLS `1.3` it is not supported. The Kubernetes control plane converts the `Modern` profile to `Intermediate`.

Reviewer: I think you can remove this whole note here. Per @stlaz the API server doesn't do the 1.0 -> 1.1 conversion for the old profile. And it doesn't do the 1.3->1.2 conversion either.

We've already noted that the modern profile isn't supported in the overview section, so I don't think we need to mention it again here.

Author: @bergerhoffer Should we leave _The Kubernetes control plane does not support TLS `1.3`_?

Reviewer: @stlaz I believe you told me that the API server didn't convert 1.3 to 1.2 (for custom profiles). Can you confirm that 1.3 is actually supported for the control plane?

The Kubernetes control plane also converts the TLS `1.0` of an `Old` or `Custom` profile to `1.1`, and TLS `1.3` of a `Custom` profile to `1.2`.
====

.Prerequisites

* You have access to the cluster as a user with the `cluster-admin` role.

.Procedure

. Edit the default `APIServer` CR to configure the TLS security profile:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc edit APIServer cluster
----
+

> .Sample `tls-security-profile.yaml` file

Reviewer: Since you changed this to use `oc edit`, there isn't this `tls-security-profile.yaml` file anymore.

Also, right now this is just a single step. Could you break it up more info separate steps? Like:

```
. Edit the default `APIServer` CR to configure the TLS security profile:
// command
. Add the `spec.tlsSecurityProfile` field:
// YAML details
. Save the file to apply the changes.
```

Same for the ingress procedure

Author: For the record, I changed to `oc edit` as the APIServer CR already exists. Good point to add the additional steps.

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: config.openshift.io/v1
kind: APIServer
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  tlsSecurityProfile:
    type: Custom <1>
    custom: <2>
      ciphers: <3>
      - ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
      - ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
      - ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
      - ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
      minTLSVersion: VersionTLS11
----
<1> Specify the TLS security profile type. The default is `Intermediate`.
* `Old`
* `Intermediate`
// * `Modern`
* `Custom`
<2> Specify:

> * `Old: {}`

Reviewer: These should be lowercase

Same for ingress and kubelet procedure

Author: Oops. That was exactly the reason why I added the call out, was to show they are lowercase as opposed to <1>. Thanks!

* `Intermediate: {}`
// * `Modern: {}`
* `Custom:`
<3> For the `custom` type, specify a list of TLS ciphers and minimum accepted TLS version.

.Verification

* Verify that the TLS security profile is set in the `APIServer` CR:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc describe apiserver cluster
----
+
.Sample `APIServer` CR

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: Same comments here about [source,terminal] and ".Example output"

----
Name:         cluster
Namespace:
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  include.release.openshift.io/ibm-cloud-managed: true
              include.release.openshift.io/self-managed-high-availability: true
              include.release.openshift.io/single-node-developer: true
              oauth-apiserver.openshift.io/secure-token-storage: true
              release.openshift.io/create-only: true
API Version:  config.openshift.io/v1
Kind:         APIServer
 ...
Spec:
  Audit:
    Profile:  Default
  Tls Security Profile:
    Custom:
      Ciphers:
        ECDHE-ECDSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
        ECDHE-RSA-CHACHA20-POLY1305
        ECDHE-RSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
        ECDHE-ECDSA-AES128-GCM-SHA256
      Min TLS Version:  VersionTLS11
    Type:               Custom
 ...

> Status:

Reviewer: This is a pretty long YAML snippet. Is it important to show the details both in the spec and status sections, or could you pick just one to show, and truncate the other?

Same for the ingress controller verification step
